---
layout: post
title: Java面试基础知识
date:   2019-03-05 01:00:00 +0800
categories: 计算机技术
tag: 面试
---


<h1>JDK, JRE, JVM</h1>

https://www.edureka.co/blog/interview-questions/java-interview-questions/#basic

JDK: It stands for Java Development Kit
JRE: It stands for Java RunTime Environment

<h3>Q5. What are wrapper classes? </h3>

Wrapper classes converts the java primitives into the reference types (objects)

<h3>Q6. What are constructors in Java? </h3>

In Java, constructor refers to a block of code which is used to initialize an object. It must have the same name as that of the class. Also, it has no return type and it is automatically called when an object is created.

<h3>Q7. What is singleton class and how can we make a class singleton? </h3>
Singleton class is a class whose only one instance can be created at any given time, in one JVM. A class can be made singleton by making its constructor private.


<h3> Q8. What is the difference between abstract classes and interfaces? </h3>

Abstract Class  and Interfaces

+ An abstract class can provide complete, default code and/or just the details that have to be overridden.
+ An interface cannot provide any code at all,just the signature.
In case of abstract class, a class may extend only one abstract class.  A Class may implement several interfaces.

+ An abstract class can have non-abstract methods.
+ All methods of an Interface are abstract.

+ An abstract class can have instance variables.
+ An Interface cannot have instance variables


+ An abstract class can have any visibility: public, private, protected.  An +
+ Interface visibility must be public (or) none.

+ If we add a new method to an abstract class then we have the option of providing + default implementation and therefore all the existing code might work properly

+ If we add a new method to an Interface then we have to track down all the
+ implementations of the interface and define implementation for the new method

+ An abstract class can contain constructors
+ An Interface cannot contain constructors

+ Abstract classes are fast
+ Interfaces are slow as it requires extra indirection to find corresponding method in the actual class

<h3>Q4. What is method overloading and method overriding?</h3>
Method Overloading :

+ In Method Overloading, Methods of the same class shares the same name but each method must have different number of parameters or parameters having different types and order.
+ Method Overloading is to “add” or “extend” more to method’s behavior.
+ It is a compile time polymorphism.
+ The methods must have different signature.
It may or may not need inheritance in Method Overloading.

Method Overriding:

+ In Method Overriding, sub class have the same method with same name and exactly the same number and type of parameters and same return type as a super class.
+ Method Overriding is to “Change” existing behavior of method.
+ It is a run time polymorphism.
+ The methods must have same signature.
+ It always requires inheritance in Method Overriding.


